[Term Entry] PHP Math Function: atan (#2790)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/math-functions/terms/atan/atan.md

---
Title: 'atan()'

> Description: 'Returns the angle whose tangent value is equal to the specified value.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the angle whose tangent is equal to the specified value.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Code Foundations'

>   - 'Computer Science'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we only list 2 items under subjects

Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Trigonometry'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The inverse tangent function, which is used to identify the angle whose tangent value is equal to the specified value, is referred to as the arc tangent function. The built-in math function **`atan()`** determines the arc tangent of a given value. It is the inverse function of the [`tan()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/math-functions/tan) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in math function **`atan()`** determines the arc tangent of a given value. It is also known as the inverse tangent function, it identifies the angle whose tangent is equal to the specified value. The inverse function of `atan() is the [`tan()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/math-functions/tan) function.
```

> This means that `tan(atan(number))` would be equal to `number`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Syntax

> The syntax of the `atan()` function is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo

> $result = atan(number);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$result = atan($number);
```

```

> The atan() function takes one parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `atan()` function takes one parameter:
```

- $number (required): The number for which the arc tangent is to be calculated.

> The `atan()` method returns a floating point number which is the arc tangent value of the number passed as argument. The resulting numeric value is between **-pi/2** and **pi/2** radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `atan()` method returns a floating point number which is the arc tangent value of the number passed. The resulting numeric value will be between **-pi/2** and **pi/2** radians.
```

To convert radians to degrees, use the following:

```
$degrees = $radians * ( 180.0 / M_PI )
```

## Example

> The below example illustrates the use of the `atan()` function to calculate the arc tangent of a number and print the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below illustrates the use of the `atan()` function to calculate the arc tangent of a number and print the result.
```

```php
<?php
echo("atan(0.5): " . atan(0.5) . " Radians");
?>
```

This will result in the following output:

```shell
atan(0.5): 0.46364760900081 Radians
```

## Codebyte Example

> The below example uses the `atan()` function to obtain the arc tangent value of a number in radians, and then converts it into degrees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below uses the `atan()` function to obtain the arc tangent value of a number in radians, and then converts it into degrees.
```

---
Title: 'atan()'
Description: 'Returns the angle whose tangent value is equal to the specified value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'

>   - 'Math Functions'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Not a subject in [the subjects.md file](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).

Tags:
  - 'Methods'

>   - 'Trigonometric'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Trigonometry'
```

  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The inverse tangent function, which is used to identify the angle whose tangent value is equal to the specified value, is referred to as the **arc tangent** function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The inverse tangent function, which is used to identify the angle whose tangent value is equal to the specified value, is referred to as the arc tangent function.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove line break so these are the same paragraph.

> The built-in math function **`atan()`** determines the arc tangent of a given value. It is the inverse function of the [**`tan()`**](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/math-functions/tan) function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The built-in math function **`atan()`** determines the arc tangent of a given value. It is the inverse function of the [`tan()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/math-functions/tan) function.
```

> 
> > This means that `tan(atan(number))` would be equal to `number`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that `tan(atan(number))` would be equal to `number`.
```

## Syntax

The syntax of the `atan()` function is as follows:

```pseudo
$result = atan(number);
```

The atan() function takes one parameter:

> - $number (required): The number for which you want to calculate the arc tangent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- $number (required): The number for which the arc tangent is to be calculated.
```
We avoid first- and second-person pronouns in docs.

> 
> Where `number` is the number whose arc tangent the function returns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is redundant.

> 
> ## Return Value
> 
> The `atan()` method returns a floating point number which is the arc tangent value of the number passed as argument.
> 
> The resulting numeric value is between **-pi/2** and **pi/2** radians.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `atan()` method returns a floating point number which is the arc tangent value of the number passed as argument. The resulting numeric value is between -pi/2 and pi/2 radians.
```

> To convert radians to degrees, we can use the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To convert radians to degrees, use the following:
```

```

> degrees = radians * ( 180.0 / M_PI )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$degrees = $radians * ( 180.0 / M_PI )
```

```

## Example

> ```php

Reviewer 2: Even with a simple example we like an introductory sentence summarizing what it is doing.

Author: Added an introductory sentence.

<?php
echo("atan(0.5): " . atan(0.5) . " Radians");
?>
```

This will result in the following output:

```shell
atan(0.5): 0.46364760900081 Radians
```

## Codebyte Example

> In the below example, let's use the `atan()` function to obtain the arc tangent value of a number in radians, and then convert it into degrees.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The below example uses the `atan()` function to obtain the arc tangent value of a number in radians, and then converts it into degrees.
```
